[Add]: blog: documentation (#5801)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/websites/blog.rst

.. tip::
   - Illustrate your articles with copyright-free images from :doc:`Unsplash <website/configuration/unsplash>`.
   - Type `/` in the text editor to format and craft your text.

.. important::
   Toggle the switch in the upper-right corner from :guilabel:`Unpublished` to :guilabel:`Published`
   to make your article visible.

Using tags
==========

Tags help you categorize and organize your blog posts and offer a user-friendly way to facilitate
search.

To create a tag, go to :menuselection:`Website --> Configuration --> Blogs: Tags` and click
:guilabel:`New`. You can also open an existing tag to edit it. Fill in the required information:

- :guilabel:`Name`: your tag’s name;
- :guilabel:`Category`: the category your tag belongs to. You can select an existing one, create a
  new one, or leave it empty;
- :guilabel:`Used in`: to apply your tag to existing blog posts, click :guilabel:`Add a line`,
  select your posts, and click :guilabel:`Select`. Click :guilabel:`New` if your tag applies to a
  post you want to create on the fly.

.. note::
   To show tags on your Blog dashboard page, click :menuselection:`Edit --> Customize`, and toggle

>    the switch of :guilabel:`Sidebar` and then of :guilabel:`Tags List`.

Reviewer: Perhaps add a screenshot to illustrate this? I found it, but it took me a while.

Maybe you could make it clearer by explaining more in detail how tags are displayed on the blog page, maybe even adding a little structure:
Tag visibility:
- Blog posts: tags are visible by default at the end of the blog post content.
- The main page of the blog: to make the tags visible, click :menuselection:`Edit --> Customize`, and toggle
   the switch of :guilabel:`Sidebar` and then of :guilabel:`Tags List`.

Or in one text block, "The tags are visible by default to the visitors at the end of each blog post. If you want to make the tags visible on the main page of the blog, click :menuselection:`Edit --> Customize`, and toggle the switch of :guilabel:`Sidebar` and then of :guilabel:`Tags List`.:"

And I'm not sure about "Blog dashboard". I would just say the main page, or maybe frontend (but then explain if we mean main page or the individual blog post), as dashboard - to me - implies something in the backend.

Customizing content
===================

You can enable the features related to your blog dashboard or a specific blog post according to your
needs.

Customizing your blog dashboard
-------------------------------

> From your Blog dashboard page, click :menuselection:`Edit --> Customize`, and toggle the switch of

Reviewer: Same comment as above about the dashboard, I'd suggest "The main page"

the following options to activate them:

> :guilabel:`Top Banner`: select :guilabel:`Name/Latest Post` to display the name of the latest post

Reviewer: I know the option is called "Name/Latest Post" but I'd suggest to clarify in the description "to display the TITLE of the latest post", "name" is just weird. But it's nitpicking

on the top banner, or :guilabel:`Drop Zone for Building Blocks` to hide the top banner.

:guilabel:`Layout`: select :guilabel:`Grid` or :guilabel:`List`.

- :guilabel:`Cards`: to display your posts as cards;

> - :guilabel:`Increase Readability`: to improve the readability of the posts that are displayed.

Reviewer: Maybe explain a bit about how it works exactly (the font/size will be adjusted?)

  to access all related posts.

:guilabel:`Posts List`: select :guilabel:`Cover` to show the illustration related to your post, or
:guilabel:`No Cover` to hide it.

- :guilabel:`Author`: to show the author of the post;
- :guilabel:`Comments/View Stats`: to show the number of comments and views on   your post;
- :guilabel:`Teaser & Tags`: to show a teaser text and tags on your posts.

Customizing your blog post
--------------------------

Click :menuselection:`Edit --> Customize` and toggle the switch of the following options to activate
them:

:guilabel:`Layout`: select :guilabel:`Title Inside Cover` or :guilabel:`Title above Cover`.

- :guilabel:`Increase Readability`: to improve the readability of your text.

:guilabel:`Sidebar`: to display the :guilabel:`Sidebar` and additional options:

- :guilabel:`Archive`: a search bar allows to search posts by creation date;
- :guilabel:`Author`: to mention the author on the post;
- :guilabel:`Blog List`: to show the list of your blogs;
- :guilabel:`Share Links`: to allow users to share your post on social media;
- :guilabel:`Tags`: to display the tags of the post.

> :guilabel:`Breadcrumb`: to show the path to the post and the user's location.

Reviewer: Perhaps: and the user's location within the website.
Just so it's clear what kind of location we mean ;)

:guilabel:`Bottom`: click :guilabel:`Next Article` to display the following article below your post,
or click :guilabel:`Comments` to allow visitors to comment on your post.

:guilabel:`Select To Tweet`: to enable the tweet of part of the text when it is selected.

.. seealso::

>    :doc:`Website Documentation <website>`.

Reviewer: Not sure if the . is needed at the end?

Author: I removed the dot and moved this see also at the beg of the page

====
Blog
====

**Odoo Blog** is a content management system that allows you to create and manage blog posts on your
website to engage your audience and build a community.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Website Documentation <website>`

Creating a blog
===============

To create or edit a blog, go to :menuselection:`Website --> Configuration --> Blogs: Blogs`. Click
:guilabel:`New` and fill in the required information: add a :guilabel:`Blog Name`, a :guilabel:`Blog
Subtitle`, and if needed, select the :guilabel:`Website` you want to restrict the blog to. If this
field is left empty, your blog is visible from all websites.

> To access your blogs, go to your :guilabel:`website` and click on :guilabel:`Blog` on the top menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access your blogs, go to your :guilabel:`website` and click :guilabel:`Blog` on the top menu.
```

Your blogs appear in the sub-menu bar.

Writing a blog post
===================

Go to your website and click :guilabel:`+New` in the top-right corner. Select :guilabel:`Blog Post`,
:guilabel:`Select blog`, and add a blog post :guilabel:`Title`.

Write your blog post and customize your page’s content using the website builder.

.. tip::
   - Illustrate your articles with copyright-free images from :doc:`Unsplash <website/configuration/unsplash>`.

>    - Type `/` in the text editor to format and adding elements to your text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Type `/` in the text editor to format and add elements to your text.
```

.. important::
   Toggle the switch in the upper-right corner from :guilabel:`Unpublished` to :guilabel:`Published`
   to make your article visible.

Using tags
==========

> Tags are visible by default at the end of each blog post, and can also be shown on the blog main

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tags are visible by default at the end of each blog post, and can also be shown on the blog's main
```

page to help you categorize and organize your blog posts and offer a user-friendly way to facilitate
search.

To create a tag, go to :menuselection:`Website --> Configuration --> Blogs: Tags` and click
:guilabel:`New`. You can also open an existing tag to edit it. Fill in the required information:

- :guilabel:`Name`: your tag’s name;
- :guilabel:`Category`: the category your tag belongs to. You can select an existing one, create a

>   new one, or leave it empty;

Author: being clarified with PO

- :guilabel:`Used in`: to apply your tag to existing blog posts, click :guilabel:`Add a line`,
  select your posts, and click :guilabel:`Select`. Click :guilabel:`New` if your tag applies to a

>   post you want to create on the fly.

Author: It's also possible to create tags frontend. There is currently a bug. I informed the PO, this is being fixed. I update the text as it should be.

To show tags on your Blog main page, click :menuselection:`Edit --> Customize`, and toggle the

> switch of :guilabel:`Sidebar` and then of :guilabel:`Tags List`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Sidebar` switch and then guilabel:`Tags List` switch.
```

I'm not 100% sure what is better, but up to you :)

Customizing content
===================

You can enable the features related to your blog main page or a specific blog post according to your

> needs.

Reviewer: To me, this whole sentence is not necessary (as the section is called "customizing content"), but up to you :)

Customizing your blog main page
-------------------------------

From your Blog main page, click :menuselection:`Edit --> Customize`, and toggle the switch of
the following options to activate them:

:guilabel:`Top Banner`: select :guilabel:`Name/Latest Post` to display the title of the latest post
on the top banner, or :guilabel:`Drop Zone for Building Blocks` to hide the top banner.

:guilabel:`Layout`: select to display blog posts on the main page as :guilabel:`Grid` or
:guilabel:`List`.

> - :guilabel:`Cards`: to display your posts as cards;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Cards`: to display posts as cards;
```

- :guilabel:`Increase Readability`: to improve the readability of the posts that are displayed.

> :guilabel:`Sidebar`: when enabled, a column appears on your page, displaying an :guilabel:`About us`
> section and, if enabled, the below information:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Sidebar`: to display a column containing an :guilabel:`About us`
section and, if enabled, additional sections:
```

> section and, if enabled the below information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
section and, if enabled, the below information:
```

- :guilabel:`Archives`: a search bar allows to search posts by creation date;
- :guilabel:`Follow Us`: invites users to follow you on social media;
- :guilabel:`Tags List`: shows all existing tags related to your posts. Users can click on a tag
  to access all related posts.

:guilabel:`Posts List`: select :guilabel:`Cover` to show the image related to your post, or
:guilabel:`No Cover` to hide it.

- :guilabel:`Author`: to show the author of the post;
- :guilabel:`Comments/View Stats`: to display the number of comments and views on your post;

> - :guilabel:`Teaser & Tags`: to display a teaser text and tags on your posts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Teaser & Tags`: to display a teaser text and tags of your posts.
```
Unclear what the teaser is.

Customizing your blog post
--------------------------

Click :menuselection:`Edit --> Customize` and toggle the switch of the following options to activate

> them:

Author: already mentioned in a note below :)

:guilabel:`Layout`: select :guilabel:`Title Inside Cover` to display the title inside the cover
image, or select :guilabel:`Title above Cover` to display the title above the cover image.

- :guilabel:`Increase Readability`: to increase the size of your text and improve the readability.

:guilabel:`Sidebar`: to display the :guilabel:`Sidebar` and additional options:

- :guilabel:`Archive`: a search bar allows to search posts by creation date;

> - :guilabel:`Author`: to mention the author on the post;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Author`: to display the author on the post;
```

- :guilabel:`Blog List`: to show the list of your blogs;

> - :guilabel:`Share Links`: to allow users to share your post on social media;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Share Links`: to allow users to share your posts on social media;
```

> - :guilabel:`Tags`: to display the tags of the post.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Tags`: to display the tags of your posts.
```

:guilabel:`Breadcrumb`: to show the path to the post and the user's location within the website.

:guilabel:`Bottom`: click :guilabel:`Next Article` to display the article below your post, or click
:guilabel:`Comments` to allow visitors to comment on your post.

:guilabel:`Select To Tweet`: to enable the tweet of part of the text when it is selected.

.. note::

>    Changes applied to a blog post apply to all posts.

Reviewer 2: This should be mentioned in the section intro.
